Platform options (#998)
AvaloniaUI/avalonia-docs: docs/platform-specific-guides/webassembly.md

# Debug at url: https://127.0.0.1:53577/_framework/debug
```

## Configuring browser platform options

> `BrowserPlatformOptions` controls how Avalonia renders and behaves in the browser. Pass an instance to `StartBrowserAppAsync` in your Browser project's `Program.cs`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`BrowserPlatformOptions` controls how Avalonia renders and behaves in the browser. Apply it by passing to `.StartBrowserAppAsync()` in `Program.cs`, using the `id` of the HTML element where Avalonia renders as the first argument:
```

```csharp
internal sealed partial class Program
{
    private static Task Main(string[] args) => BuildAvaloniaApp()
        .StartBrowserAppAsync("out", new BrowserPlatformOptions
        {
            RenderingMode = new[]
            {
                BrowserRenderingMode.WebGL2,
                BrowserRenderingMode.Software2D
            }
        });

    public static AppBuilder BuildAvaloniaApp()
        => AppBuilder.Configure<App>();
}
```

> The first argument to `StartBrowserAppAsync` is the `id` of the HTML element where Avalonia renders. Every option has a default, so set only the ones you need to change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following options are available.

- [Rendering mode](#rendering-mode)
- [`PreferManagedThreadDispatcher`](#other-options)
- [`PreferFileDialogPolyfill`](#other-options)
- [`FrameworkAssetPathResolver`](#other-options)
- [`AvaloniaServiceWorkerScope`](#other-options)
```

### Rendering mode

> `RenderingMode` is an ordered list of graphics backends. Avalonia tries each one in turn and uses the first that initializes successfully, so the first entry has the highest priority. The default is `WebGL2`, then `WebGL1`, then `Software2D`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`RenderingMode` is an ordered list of graphics backends. Avalonia tries each one in turn and uses the first that initializes successfully, so the first entry has the highest priority. The default is a three-item list of `WebGL2` first, `WebGL1` second, `Software2D` third.
```

| Mode | Description |
|---|---|

> | `WebGL2` | GPU rendering through WebGL 2. The default GPU backend. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `WebGL2` | GPU rendering through WebGL 2. Default GPU backend. |
```

| `WebGL1` | GPU rendering through WebGL 1. |
| `Software2D` | CPU rendering using the HTML 2D canvas. |

> If none of the listed modes initialize, Avalonia throws an `InvalidOperationException`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`RenderingMode` must contain at least one mode. If it is empty, or none of the listed modes initialize, Avalonia throws an `InvalidOperationException`.
```

### Other options

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|---|---|---|---|

> | `RenderingMode` | `IReadOnlyList<BrowserRenderingMode>` | `WebGL2`, `WebGL1`, `Software2D` | Ordered list of graphics backends with fallback, described above. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `RenderingMode` | `IReadOnlyList<BrowserRenderingMode>` | `WebGL2`, `WebGL1`, `Software2D` | Ordered list of graphics backends. [See above section.](#rendering-mode) |
```

| `PreferManagedThreadDispatcher` | `bool?` | `true` | Creates a controlled dispatcher loop on the web worker thread. Used only when `WasmEnableThreads` is `true`. |
| `PreferFileDialogPolyfill` | `bool` | `false` | Forces the `native-file-system-adapter` polyfill for file dialogs instead of the browser's native implementation. |
| `FrameworkAssetPathResolver` | `Func<string, string>?` | `null` | Customizes the paths where Avalonia modules and the service locator are resolved. The default path depends on the backend (browser or Blazor). |
| `AvaloniaServiceWorkerScope` | `string?` | `null` | Sets the scope for the Avalonia service worker. Defaults to the current domain root. Used only when `RegisterAvaloniaServiceWorker` is enabled. |

:::caution

> `RegisterAvaloniaServiceWorker` registers a service worker that can act as a save file picker fallback on browsers without native support. It is marked unstable and might not work reliably.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`RegisterAvaloniaServiceWorker` registers a service worker that can act as a save file picker fallback on browsers without native support. It is marked unstable—use with caution.
```
